Danny Grimm the hero of the show and
helping meteos get his webcam fixed mark
did you pick him because of that no I
stopped it okay well Danny Graham no
favoritism where you calling from
calling from Redmond Washington Redmond
Washington okay I'm gonna turn you up
here a little quiet what do you want to
talk about on do you work for Microsoft
yeah have you been on the show before I
never asked you this question I know but
I've talked to you in twitch chat when
you were doing IRL streams
okay very good well what do you want to
talk about on the show tonight right so
I wanted to talk about how I don't think
any team from any region should qualify
to worlds based on championship points
and I guess my main reason as world's
should be like this big tournament once
a year all the best teams at that moment
should be represented at Worlds and
since slots are kind of it's not like
every region gets tense loss or anything
it's very few slots and we should only
be seeing the best teams and I feel like
when you start counting championship
points you like no hate towards heart
thieves but you get situations where
like the fourth best team in the region
qualifies so I guess what I'm trying to
say is only one team should qualify from
playoffs everyone else should fight for
whatever slots are left we should only
qualify from pull it from playoffs like
one team one team from from playoffs
obviously summer playoffs yeah everyone
else's fight either flu gauntlet or some
other system I don't know okay yeah so
without getting into the specifics of
the system the main talking point is no
one should qualify off point
championship points okay yeah so do you
you in this system two spring split not
matter and I mean I was I was thinking
about it for a while cuz you want spring
split to mean something but I guess it
should only help you with seating in
gauntlet which should be a big deal
assuming only one team qualify through
playoffs so you want to get a better
seed so you don't have to fight I guess
as hard so beat something or maybe like
come up with a different system
but in the current system I still think
that only one team should qualify
through playoffs everyone else shouldn't
like championship points is just
receding Danny groom do you have a
favorite team clout and I actually but
so people were suspicious you were at
tea or something on the topic of spring
not mattering I think going to MSI is
good and I think seating in the gauntlet
is still good like imagine if c9 had to
show their Hecker and pick against echo
fox and TSM was above them in the
gauntlet and then they're like oh shit
they're playing hecarim into aatrox
better learn this fucking matchup so I
don't have to do it on stage I think
that is an advantage so I think you know
spring would still matter would it be as
sexy as like I got second and spring and
now I met worlds no but you know do we
is it better to have a team qualifying
from points and spring is the question
yeah I definitely think it's an issue
with no easy answer because on one hand
nobody wants to see a team go to world
so it's not actually like the best from
their region and circuit points can't
allow that to happen at times like I
think a lot of people were unhappy about
100 the way 100 thieves qualified given
their recent performance and I think it
happened one or two years ago with CLG
as well where they got in and not
everyone was happy about it yeah that's
the Amazon so yeah yeah I mean I
definitely agree that it's unfortunate
when it happens when like you can't see
your favourite team that's playing well
right now go to Worlds because of
something like circuit points so I think
a different system could be good the
only thing you have to think about is
how do you make spring split not useless
and that's the big question for everyone
circuit points were designed as a way to
kind of make spring split matter more
because you won't just have a team
that's like you know giving 0 like care
in the world to the spring split and
then just tryharding in summer and then
getting in so I wish dad was here we
hear when he was given that like this on
the analyst desk or what no no this
wasn't like the cast your green room ok
we were talking about the same topic and
Jats like I have a system I was thinking
about and then someone was joking like
there's a whiteboard there if you want
to write it down and then he just
was up on the whiteboard near Isis huge
thing so it's John after we left on
Sunday he went and wrote it on a napkin
and took a picture on his phone and sent
it to me would you have it I shouldn't I
shouldn't show it without talking with
him but yeah he sent it I mean one of
the things that we were discussing is
basically making the gauntlet function
more like a double elimination bracket
in conjunction with the actual playoff
bracket so that like as you lose in
playoffs you get dropped into the
gauntlet at different points and people
who have points who then like in spring
if you didn't get seeded into the
playoffs you would then have it so it
was it was something like that we were
there were a lot of different ideas
around it and I think spring split
matters a lot more than when
championship points were initially
introduced cuz there was no there was no
MSI if I remember until 25th 2015 they
got right at how stars initially were
yeah it was yeah it is really brain it
also essentially yeah 2015 was all stars
and it sucked and I think 2016 was the
first MSI then yeah so I forget exactly
when it came around but I think with MSI
becoming a lot more prestigious of a
tournament in the last two years the
need for like championship points to
carry a lot of weight to make spurning
matter has decreased like I think TL was
very happy to like be rewarded with the
chance to play at MSI for winning spring
so I still think spring would would
matter plenty you should text jet and
tell him to come yeah actually I
remember parts of Jets thing like
obviously I don't remember the whole
thing but it was something like your it
was a double elimination goal at
tournament thing but what a problem
you're into with a lot of double
elimination tournament there's like the
grand final is really weird because like
how much my advantage to give to the guy
coming from the winner's bracket versus
the losers so and with what Joe was
saying it was a case where it would just
be like at the end of the tournament
like the top three teams go to Worlds it
doesn't really matter if you're number
one or not right yeah that's exactly
what we're talking about as well where
it's like you I was saying that you want
to run the gauntlet actually concurrent
with the the thing so that way your
finals weekend is actually your final
weekend it's not the gone
later because it's really weird to have
like yes at least for me it's really
weird to have this hype ass venue that
is very important for the first second
place match but then you come back and
play a week at like this kind of dull
venue and even though TSM vs. c9 to
qualify for world should have been super
duper hype it still feels hard to
measure the hype in the venue so I was
saying you want to combine the gauntlet
and the playoffs together so that way
your final weekend is at a venue and
it's the one to match which is
determining seeding for worlds and the
third fourth place match which is
technically the end of the gauntlet run
which people have been dropping into as
they've dropped out of playoffs
I am super onboard with that because I
have for a long time I felt like
gauntlet is a very very cool event but
weirdly placed like you should cap off
the entire summer split with the finals
like everything builds to that and then
afterwards you've got this other thing
that at times can feel more hype than
the finals if you've got shit like it
just is really weird so I am 100% down
for integrating got there you should
text Jett and tell him to come on the
show Danny Graham what were you gonna
say sorry I wasn't actually talking but
I think the big reason why I want to
push for identity is because in the
current playoff system I think there's a
lot of situations where I like a really
good team like two really good teams
will meet early in the playoffs like if
you look at spring playoffs I think like
Team Liquid in cloud nine met in the
quarterfinals right and cloud nine just
has this way of losing quarter-finalists
during playoffs sometimes and they might
not even be like the fifth six worst
team maybe they're the second best team
but if you hit the first best team round
one like you're kind of screwed so I'm
personally a big fan of double
elimination I think it's like pretty fun
to watch so hopefully they can find some
system where you can integrate that and
give like the most combination of like
fair exciting and competitive for all
the teams Danny I'd love to hear you
talk yeah I want one thing I was heading
on to what media was saying I like from
other eSports where they don't have like
an
establish League you get to see once a
year you get to see like this huge
qualifier is happening which is kind of
like gauntlet and I really like that
that even like the strongest teams have
to like war threat qualifier and you get
like epic games and it's super fun so I
definitely think that expanding gauntlet
to some extent would be super nice and
then again to kind of reiterate what I
was saying I mean it's nice that you had
a good spring split but that was like a
whole what four months ago and if you're
not the best like if you're not the
first second or third best team in the
region you shouldn't be representing
that region at Worlds and it's just like
plain and simple and at least in my
opinion it did again no hey towards
anyone that qualified over points that's
not the point the point is that you need
to be the best for worlds to be kind of
the best tournament and especially since
there's no real way to say like even if
you were a fourth place and qualifying
you can't really say how much weaker you
are than the third place team so there
might be like a huge disparity but since
you did good in spring split you still
qualify and that's like a very kind of
bad scenario for the tournament so yeah
I guess just either come up with a
different system expand gauntlets
something else just don't have somebody
qualified that is not the first second
or third best team in the region yeah
yeah sounds good hey Dani thank you so
much for calling in anything you want to
add at the end here
no thanks for having me thanks for
fixing the issue earlier anytime Oh
anytime great cuz I've got a lot of
Skype issues so I'm gonna I'm gonna hit
you up alright you can't you can DM me
fantastic cool all right
he said he works in Microsoft right yeah
I mean I realize I don't like I don't
he's not an official Microsoft
representative I don't want to get him
in trouble who knows what he works on he
might do QA for office 365
all right Alex